amneziawg-client/DOCS.md, before:

# AmneziaWG Client — Home Assistant Add-on

## Overview

This add-on runs an [AmneziaWG](https://amnezia.org/) VPN client inside Home Assistant using a userspace Go implementation. No kernel module required — it works on any system that supports Docker (including Raspberry Pi).

AmneziaWG is a WireGuard-based VPN protocol with additional traffic obfuscation to resist DPI blocking.

## Installation

1. Open **Home Assistant** → **Settings** → **Add-ons** → **Add-on Store**.
2. Click the **⋮** menu (top right) → **Repositories**.
3. Add the repository URL:
   ```
   https://github.com/Windemiatrix/amnezia-client-image
   ```
4. Find **AmneziaWG Client** in the store and click **Install**.

## Configuration

### Config File

Place your AmneziaWG `.conf` file in the Home Assistant `/config` directory (e.g., `/config/wg0.conf`).

The config file uses the standard WireGuard format with additional AmneziaWG obfuscation parameters (`Jc`, `Jmin`, `Jmax`, `S1`, `S2`, `H1`–`H4`):

```ini
[Interface]
Address = 100.75.XXX.XXX/32
DNS = 8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4
PrivateKey = <your-private-key>
Jc = 2
Jmin = 10
Jmax = 50
S1 = 26
S2 = 85
H1 = 587828137
H2 = 180295271
H3 = 1960955419
H4 = 1361134988

[Peer]
PublicKey = <server-public-key>
PresharedKey = <preshared-key>
AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0, ::/0
Endpoint = <server-ip>:31793
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

> **Security**: Never share your `.conf` file — it contains your private key, preshared key, and server endpoint. The example above has all sensitive values replaced with placeholders.

### Options

| Option              | Default    | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `config_file`       | `wg0.conf` | Name of the config file in `/config`                   |
| `log_level`         | `info`     | Logging verbosity: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`    |
| `health_check_host` | `1.1.1.1`  | IP address to ping through VPN for health verification |
| `kill_switch`       | `true`     | Block all traffic if VPN tunnel goes down              |

### Example Configuration

```yaml
config_file: "wg0.conf"
log_level: "info"
health_check_host: "1.1.1.1"
kill_switch: true
```

## How It Works

1. The add-on reads the AmneziaWG config from `/config/<config_file>`.
2. A TUN interface is created and the VPN tunnel is established using `awg-quick up`.
3. NAT (MASQUERADE) rules are applied for traffic forwarding.
4. If **kill switch** is enabled, iptables rules block all non-VPN traffic.
5. A health check periodically pings `health_check_host` through the VPN tunnel.

## Kill Switch

When enabled (default), the kill switch blocks all network traffic that doesn't go through the VPN tunnel. This prevents data leaks if the VPN connection drops.

The kill switch allows:
- Traffic to the VPN endpoint (so the tunnel can reconnect)
- Loopback traffic
- DNS traffic to servers specified in the config
- Established/related connections

## Health Check

The add-on performs periodic health checks (every 60 seconds):

1. Verifies the VPN interface exists.
2. Checks for a recent WireGuard handshake.
3. Pings the configured `health_check_host` through the VPN interface.

If any check fails, the add-on is marked as **unhealthy**.

## Troubleshooting

### VPN doesn't connect

- Verify your `.conf` file is valid and placed in `/config`.
- Check the add-on logs for error messages.
- Ensure the VPN server is reachable from your network.
- Try setting `log_level` to `debug` for more details.

### Add-on shows unhealthy

- The VPN tunnel may have lost connection — check the logs.
- Verify the `health_check_host` is reachable through the VPN.
- Try restarting the add-on.

### Traffic doesn't route through VPN

- Make sure `kill_switch` is enabled to prevent leaks.
- Verify the server config has `AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0` for full tunnel mode.

## Using as a Network Gateway

You can use this add-on as a VPN gateway so that other devices on your network route traffic through the VPN tunnel.

### How it works

The add-on uses **host networking**, so it shares the same IP address as your Home Assistant host. When you point your router's static route to the HA host IP, incoming packets are forwarded through the VPN tunnel with NAT (MASQUERADE).

### Setup

1. **Find your HA host IP** — e.g., `192.168.1.100`.
2. **Disable kill switch** (recommended for gateway mode) — set `kill_switch: false` in the add-on config. The kill switch blocks non-VPN INPUT traffic, which would prevent LAN devices from reaching the gateway.
3. **Configure static routes on your router:**
   - To route **all traffic** through VPN: set `0.0.0.0/0` next-hop to `192.168.1.100`.
   - To route **specific subnets** through VPN: add routes like `10.0.0.0/8 via 192.168.1.100`.

### Router configuration example

Most routers support static routes in their admin panel. The exact steps depend on your router model:

```
Destination: 0.0.0.0/0    (or a specific subnet)
Gateway:     192.168.1.100 (your HA host IP)
```

On Linux-based routers (OpenWrt, Keenetic, etc.):
```bash
ip route add 10.0.0.0/8 via 192.168.1.100
```

### Important notes

- **IP forwarding** must be enabled on the HA host. The add-on sets `net.ipv4.ip_forward=1` automatically.
- **AllowedIPs** in your `.conf` file should include the destination networks you want to route (or `0.0.0.0/0` for all traffic).
- If you use `kill_switch: true` in gateway mode, FORWARD traffic through the VPN interface is still allowed, but INPUT from LAN may be blocked.

## Support

- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Windemiatrix/amnezia-client-image/issues)
- [AmneziaWG Documentation](https://docs.amnezia.org/)

Commit message:

docs: document LOCAL_SUBNETS in README, DOCS.md and examples
- Add LOCAL_SUBNETS to env vars tables (EN + RU README)
- Update kill switch rules list (new rule #3: local subnets)
- Add troubleshooting section for lost HA/host connection
- Update docker-compose examples with LOCAL_SUBNETS
- Update HA add-on DOCS.md with local_subnets option

amneziawg-client/DOCS.md, after:

# AmneziaWG Client — Home Assistant Add-on

## Overview

This add-on runs an [AmneziaWG](https://amnezia.org/) VPN client inside Home Assistant using a userspace Go implementation. No kernel module required — it works on any system that supports Docker (including Raspberry Pi).

AmneziaWG is a WireGuard-based VPN protocol with additional traffic obfuscation to resist DPI blocking.

## Installation

1. Open **Home Assistant** → **Settings** → **Add-ons** → **Add-on Store**.
2. Click the **⋮** menu (top right) → **Repositories**.
3. Add the repository URL:
   ```
   https://github.com/Windemiatrix/amnezia-client-image
   ```
4. Find **AmneziaWG Client** in the store and click **Install**.

## Configuration

### Config File

Place your AmneziaWG `.conf` file in the Home Assistant `/config` directory (e.g., `/config/wg0.conf`).

The config file uses the standard WireGuard format with additional AmneziaWG obfuscation parameters (`Jc`, `Jmin`, `Jmax`, `S1`, `S2`, `H1`–`H4`):

```ini
[Interface]
Address = 100.75.XXX.XXX/32
DNS = 8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4
PrivateKey = <your-private-key>
Jc = 2
Jmin = 10
Jmax = 50
S1 = 26
S2 = 85
H1 = 587828137
H2 = 180295271
H3 = 1960955419
H4 = 1361134988

[Peer]
PublicKey = <server-public-key>
PresharedKey = <preshared-key>
AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0, ::/0
Endpoint = <server-ip>:31793
PersistentKeepalive = 25
```

> **Security**: Never share your `.conf` file — it contains your private key, preshared key, and server endpoint. The example above has all sensitive values replaced with placeholders.

### Options

| Option              | Default                                          | Description                                            |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `config_file`       | `wg0.conf`                                       | Name of the config file in `/config`                   |
| `log_level`         | `info`                                           | Logging verbosity: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`    |
| `health_check_host` | `1.1.1.1`                                        | IP address to ping through VPN for health verification |
| `kill_switch`       | `true`                                           | Block all traffic if VPN tunnel goes down              |
| `local_subnets`     | `192.168.0.0/16`, `10.0.0.0/8`, `172.16.0.0/12` | Subnets to exclude from VPN routing (keep LAN access)  |

### Example Configuration

```yaml
config_file: "wg0.conf"
log_level: "info"
health_check_host: "1.1.1.1"
kill_switch: true
local_subnets:
  - "192.168.0.0/16"
  - "10.0.0.0/8"
  - "172.16.0.0/12"
```

## How It Works

1. The add-on reads the AmneziaWG config from `/config/<config_file>`.
2. A TUN interface is created and the VPN tunnel is established using `awg-quick up`.
3. Routes for `local_subnets` are added through the original gateway (bypassing VPN).
4. NAT (MASQUERADE) rules are applied for traffic forwarding.
5. If **kill switch** is enabled, iptables rules block all non-VPN traffic (local subnets are still allowed).
6. A health check periodically pings `health_check_host` through the VPN tunnel.

## Kill Switch

When enabled (default), the kill switch blocks all network traffic that doesn't go through the VPN tunnel. This prevents data leaks if the VPN connection drops.

The kill switch allows:
- Traffic to the VPN endpoint (so the tunnel can reconnect)
- Traffic to local subnets (configured via `local_subnets`)
- Loopback traffic
- DNS traffic to servers specified in the config
- Established/related connections

## Health Check

The add-on performs periodic health checks (every 60 seconds):

1. Verifies the VPN interface exists.
2. Checks for a recent WireGuard handshake.
3. Pings the configured `health_check_host` through the VPN interface.

If any check fails, the add-on is marked as **unhealthy**.

## Troubleshooting

### VPN doesn't connect

- Verify your `.conf` file is valid and placed in `/config`.
- Check the add-on logs for error messages.
- Ensure the VPN server is reachable from your network.
- Try setting `log_level` to `debug` for more details.

### Add-on shows unhealthy

- The VPN tunnel may have lost connection — check the logs.
- Verify the `health_check_host` is reachable through the VPN.
- Try restarting the add-on.

### Traffic doesn't route through VPN

- Make sure `kill_switch` is enabled to prevent leaks.
- Verify the server config has `AllowedIPs = 0.0.0.0/0` for full tunnel mode.

### Lost connection to Home Assistant after starting VPN

- This happens when all traffic (including local) is routed through VPN.
- Add your local network to `local_subnets` (e.g., `192.168.1.0/24`).
- The default configuration already includes common private subnets (`192.168.0.0/16`, `10.0.0.0/8`, `172.16.0.0/12`).

## Using as a Network Gateway

You can use this add-on as a VPN gateway so that other devices on your network route traffic through the VPN tunnel.

### How it works

The add-on uses **host networking**, so it shares the same IP address as your Home Assistant host. When you point your router's static route to the HA host IP, incoming packets are forwarded through the VPN tunnel with NAT (MASQUERADE).

### Setup

1. **Find your HA host IP** — e.g., `192.168.1.100`.
2. **Disable kill switch** (recommended for gateway mode) — set `kill_switch: false` in the add-on config. The kill switch blocks non-VPN INPUT traffic, which would prevent LAN devices from reaching the gateway.
3. **Configure static routes on your router:**
   - To route **all traffic** through VPN: set `0.0.0.0/0` next-hop to `192.168.1.100`.
   - To route **specific subnets** through VPN: add routes like `10.0.0.0/8 via 192.168.1.100`.

### Router configuration example

Most routers support static routes in their admin panel. The exact steps depend on your router model:

```
Destination: 0.0.0.0/0    (or a specific subnet)
Gateway:     192.168.1.100 (your HA host IP)
```

On Linux-based routers (OpenWrt, Keenetic, etc.):
```bash
ip route add 10.0.0.0/8 via 192.168.1.100
```

### Important notes

- **IP forwarding** must be enabled on the HA host. The add-on sets `net.ipv4.ip_forward=1` automatically.
- **AllowedIPs** in your `.conf` file should include the destination networks you want to route (or `0.0.0.0/0` for all traffic).
- If you use `kill_switch: true` in gateway mode, FORWARD traffic through the VPN interface is still allowed, but INPUT from LAN may be blocked.

## Support

- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Windemiatrix/amnezia-client-image/issues)
- [AmneziaWG Documentation](https://docs.amnezia.org/)
